In a prior video we talked events and
characteristics in the real world and
outlined all sorts of ideas
about people objects and events
that might be interesting to our business
and have applications in analytics.
In this video we make the transition
from ideas to information,
by talking about the systems
that actually capture the data.
As an analyst,
it's really helpful to understand where
the data you are working with comes from,
even if that data is being brought
together in a common location.
The truth is, there are thousands,
if not more different types
of system that capture data.
But what we try to do today is group
many of those systems into five broad
categories that you're most likely
to encounter in your company.
Specifically, we'll talk about
core enterprise systems,
customer and people systems, product and
presence systems, technical operations
systems, and external source systems.
Let's start with core enterprise systems,
these are usually large scale system
that tie in directly to the financial
operations of a company.
They include things like billing and
invoicing systems that help
manage purchasing transaction and
the collection of payments.
They also include enterprise reprise
planning or ERP systems, which are really
broad systems to help manage business
processes on the back end of the business.
As the name suggests, these systems
usually focus on the resources of
the company whether they're financial
assets, materials, or production capacity.
Supply chain management systems
focus specifically on the flow and
storage of goods and
services through a system.
They help track raw materials and products
from their points of origin to their
points of consumption and provide insights
into throughput and inventory levels.
Just about every business has some
sort of accounting system which tracks
all the financial transactions and
balances associated with the business,
including journal entries and
the general ledger.
These systems help formally track assets,
liabilities, revenues, expenses and
equity in accordance with
standard accounting practices.
Finally, many businesses, like
communication companies and utilities,
also rely on the large-scale tracking,
rating, and billing of usage information.
So they have systems that do that.
There's often a lot of overlap
in these enterprise systems.
And you might find that one system
actually does a few of these
functions in your business.
For example,
it's not uncommon to see usage and
billing integrated into a single system.
And and ERP system might actually
perform a number of supply chain and
invoicing functions.
Let's move on to customer and
people systems.
These systems can also be
critical to the business but
focus more on people organizations
both inside and outside the company.
The most expansive of these systems
are customer relationship management or
CRM systems.
CRM systems are used to track and
manage customer interactions across
all touch points and throughout the
customer's life cycle with the company.
Like ERP systems, they can be very broad
in terms of what they provide and can
accomplish some of the same functions as
other types of systems in this category.
Including the next type of
system we'll introduce.
Customer care systems, customer care
systems typically are used by call
center representatives or other personnel
that have direct contact with customers.
They usually provide access to customer
account information, marketing offers or
other functions needed to
help preserve customers.
They also help capture a record of
what happened during the interaction
including notes and comments.
When a business has a direct
sales function and sales people,
they often employ lead management or
sales force automation systems.
These systems help keep track of
potential customers called prospects
from identification through the process
of turning them into customers.
They also help to track sales performance
and in many cases tie into other
systems to help manage orders, contracts,
or other sales related processes.
Businesses often tie specific actions
directed at customers to customers
themselves using campaign
management systems.
These systems track the performance
of marketing campaigns or
other types of intervention.
They generally track who was contacted,
how and when they were contacted, and what
type of offer or intervention was applied,
and what type of response was achieved.
Again, these systems may tie
directly into broader CRM systems or
sale systems to provide a more complete
view of customers and potential customers.
There are a couple of slightly different
types of source systems that we'll talk
about in this category
which also focus on people.
The first of human resource systems,
these systems are internally focused and
track information about the company's
employees including role and salary
information, time and expense information,
perform it's management information and
a variety of other attributes and
characteristics of the work forced.
The last type of system we introduce
here is a bit industry specific but
it is becoming increasingly
important in the macro sense as
far as analytics are concerned.
These are electronic health record or
electronic medical record systems.
These types of systems were detailed
information about patients in
the healthcare treatment and
services they received over time.
Clearly the information to these
systems is very sensitive.
We'll take more about data
privacy in a later video.
But for certain application
they provide critical data
used in the management of healthcare
organization and policies.
Next in our lists of source categories
are products and present systems.
We're really grouping these together for
convenience.
They all tend to be support systems
that help different parts of a business.
But are only loosely
related to each other.
The first are product management systems.
As the name suggests these systems are
used to keep track of information about
products themselves.
They usually contain product attributes
and characteristics and may even have
descriptive or sales facing information in
them that ties to customer facing systems.
Content management systems
are a bit broader.
They can be used for
all sorts of business purposes.
But what they do is organize and
store content.
Content can be texts, documents, images,
music, video,
where we just about anything.
These systems generally make content
available to whatever part of the business
needs it from internal teams to customer
facing environments like websites.
The last type of system we'll talk
about in this category are online web
management and analytic systems.
These systems are pretty specific but
just about every company
with a website has one.
What these systems do is track how
users navigate through a website.
Unlike the usage tracking systems we
talked about earlier which are geared
towards billing, these type of systems are
really all about learning and analytics.
They help identify issues with websites,
influence website design and
measure activity and performance.
Web analytic systems are a nice segue to
our fourth category of source systems.
Technical operation systems, these systems
are usually very tactical helping to
monitor processes or other systems to make
sure they are functioning properly and
to identify issues when they occur.
Process monitoring systems measure what's
happening in each stage of a process
like a manufacturing sequence or
a series of software operations.
Alarming and
fault monitoring systems detect anomalies
in processes or machine operations and
alert either people or other systems
that action or attention is required.
Thickening and work for a management
systems help resources within a business
track the steps required
to resolve an issue.
Or otherwise complete a task that
might have multiple steps and
involved different people or teams.
Last, but certainly not least in
this category, are telematics and
machine data processing systems.
These systems capture data directly from
machines and devices wherever they are and
feed all sorts of other systems,
including the ones we just described.
This type of data is particularly
exciting to the analytic community,
as ideas like the internet of things and
the connected home become a reality.
This type of data is particularly
exciting to the analytic community.
As ideas like the internet of things and
the connected home become a reality.
So far all the systems we've talked
about exist inside the business or
at least are specific to the business.
However it probably goes without
saying that there's an enormous
amount of information that
exists outside the business
that you might bring to
bare in your analysis.
Again, we couldn't possibly cover
everything in this video but
in this last section we'll talk
about just a few of the most
common categories of externally
available information.
One of the most widely used sources
of external data is credit agency
information, which ranges
from simple credit scores to
detailed credit history and
credit related attributes of consumers.
Companies regularly use this
type of data to manage risk,
when extending credit to customers.
There are also external demographics and
segmentation sources,
which companies typically use to augment
their own data about customers with
additional attributes or characteristics
they can't measure themselves.
This is an area that is
expanding really rapidly,
with new data aggregation
companies popping up all the time.
Who offer unique data points on
customers or customer segments.
Finally, we can broadly classify any
information we obtained from partners or
suppliers as an external source system.
Obviously, this type of information
will be unique to your business.
Okay, so we've covered quite
a lot in this video and
the sheer variety of sources
can be a bit overwhelming.
The reason we spend time
walking this is to give you
a sense of how much is
potentially out there and
what types of information may be
available to you who is the analyst.
We also want to give you a bit of
a head start as you start thinking
backwards from the problem
you're trying to solve
by giving you a sense of where you might
look for certain things in your business.
So let's briefly recap
where we've been today.
We talked about core enterprise systems,
like billing, ERP, and accounting systems.
We then covered customer and
people systems, like CRM, CARE, sales, and
HR systems as well as
electronic health records.
We touched on product, content,
and web management systems.
We spend some time discussing technical
operation systems, including process,
alarming, monitoring, workflow management,
and machine data systems.
And finally, we looked outside
the business to external and
third party systems.
In the next set of videos, we dive
a little deeper into the technologies
that fuel data analytics and we focus on
data storage and analytical tool sets.
See you then.